- The Json processing API features
a Json pointer and Json patch object
that we can leverage when working
with Json.
The Json pointer allows us to use
a string representing a path
to a particular property in the Json
to access the property value.
Let's take a look.
We're going to be working within
our JMS consumer,
and to start out
I'm just going to remove
some of the code related to our JsonParser.
I'll take out the wild loop
but I'm going to leave the tri-block
and we're just going to swap out
the parser with a reader.
Okay, once we have our reader
we can go ahead and we're going to
extract the Json object
using the reader.
And to do that we just use the
"Read Object" method on the Reader
and then we're going to go ahead
and build our Json pointer.
And to do that we create the pointer
similarly to how we created all the
other interfaces so you'll see a
"create pointer method" on the Json object,
and it expects us to provide a path
to the property that we would like
to retrieve the value of.
So we start out at the root of
the Json document and then we're
going to access the items property.
And we want to access the first index item
within the items array
and then we're going to grab the
quantity of that item.
So let's go ahead,
we'll import the type for our Json pointer,
and then from here, what we're going to do
is retrieve that property value
and assign it to a long.
So I'm going to create a new long
named "quantity" and then we're
going to extract a string
with our Json pointer and we're going to have
to parse that as a long.
So we'll grab the pointer and then
use it's "get value" method
and then we pass in a Json object
that we want the pointer to extract
the property value from.
So we have the pointer that's looking
for this property and we pass in
that object, it's going to
get this property on that object.
And then once we get that,
we're going to assign it to a string,
and then we can
go ahead and add our semicolon there,
and we have the quantity.
Now, let's output that quantity
to the console, that way we can just see it.
Okay.
And now for our customers
it's a great day because
it's going to be double day
and we're going to double that quantity
on every order.
And to help us with that
we're going to use the Json patch.
And the Json patch is used to modify
a Json object.
So we're going to start out by
assigning our Json object the result
of applying a Json patch to it.
And to create a Json patch,
once again, very structured API here,
we use the "create patch" builder,
and this is going to be a fluent API
where we can chain a bunch of calls.
And the first thing we're going to do is
is add a new property
named "promo"
to the object and the promo is going
to have a value of double.
And that means we're going to
double everybody's order today.
The next thing we're going to do is
replace the
existing property that
is found in the "items" array and
we're only going to double the first item,
and so we're going to reach in,
grab the quantity of that first item,
and then we're going to
take a long,
and it needs to be a string.
So I'm going to use the two-string method
on long and then I'll take the quantity
and I'm going to multiply it by two
so that we doubled that first item's quantity.
The next thing we're going to do is
remove a property from our Json document.
And we're going to remove the store name property.
We'll say that the manufacturer is being
generous and doubling everything.
We don't want to hit their inventory.
All right, then we build our patch,
and then from there we apply it
to our Json object.
So there you can see how we can
build a Json patch that adds a property,
it replaces a property
and removes a property.
And you can see how we traverse
into the nesting within the Json document
in order to point to specific properties.
So the patch is used for modifying
a Json object,
and our pointer is used for
referencing a Json object.
Now let's clean things up.
And with that in place,
we're going to write that Json object
out to the console so we can see it.
And then from there, we're going to
go ahead and we can start
our application.
Let's make sure everything is saved first.
Okay, there we see the application starting.
It appears to have started.
We'll expand our console and clear it out.
And then we're going to go ahead and
use Powershow to run our test
and we'll see the API traffic go.
Okay, let's now take a look at the
modified Json object.
You can see right away
we were able to get the quantity.
And then if we scroll to the right,
you can see that we doubled the quantity
as well.
We removed the store name property
and then finally we added the
promo code double.
So that was an example of how
to use Json pointer
and Json patch
within the Json P API
found in Java EE.